----- Page 1 -----
 

UNIVERSITY GRANTS COMMISSION

COMMISSION CIRCULAR NO. 10 /2022 No. 20, Ward Place
Colombo 07

May 23, 2022
Vice-Chancellors of Universities
Rectors of Campuses
Directors of Institutes

APPOINTMENT TO THE POST OF DIRECTOR OF AN INSTITUTE

Your attention is invited to Commission Circular No. 07/2020 of 11.09.2020 on the above
issued to introduce the procedure to be adopted with regard to the appointment to the post of Director
of an Institute or Centre for Higher Learning established under Section 24A(1) of the Universities Act
No. 16 of 1978 as amended.

2: The University Grants Commission at its 1070 and 1076% meetings held on 13.01.2022 and
07.04.2022 respectively, having considered the procedure being followed in making appointment to
the post of Director of an Institute or Centre for Higher Learning established under Section 24A(1) of
the Universities Act No. 16 of 1978 as amended, decided to amend the existing procedure to clarify the
mandatory requirement of submitting the detailed Mark Sheets signed by the members of the Board
of Management and to include an exception clause for the requirement for members of such Board of
Management to be physically present at the Special meeting of the Board of Management.

3; Accordingly, the Board of Management of the Institute or Centre for Higher Learning is
directed to follow the amended procedure mentioned below;

(i) Applications/Nominations for the Post of Director shall be invited by the Deputy
Registrar/Senior Assistant Registrar/Assistant Registrar who is the Secretary to the
Board of Management of the Institute concerned, by a notice published in the national
newspapers in all three languages.

The Deputy Registrar/Senior Assistant Registrar/Assistant Registrar who is the
Secretary to the Board of Management of the Institute concerned shall advertise the
vacancy within a period of one month immediately falling prior to the period of 06
months, reckoning from the last date of the term of the incumbent Director.

The applicants/nominees should be citizens of Sri Lanka and shall be less than 63
years of age.

(ii) The Board of Management of Institute concerned, shall appoint a suitable Search
Committee comprising three (03) senior academics in the rank of Professor or above
to search for and encourage eminent persons to apply. The Committee should consist
of the following;

(a) A Dean of the University to which the Institute concerned is affiliated, who shall
be the Chair

(b) Two Members Nominated by the Board of Management


----- Page 2 -----
(iii)

(iv)

(v)

(vi)

(vii)

The prospective applicant/nominee shall be requested to submit a statement of vision
for development of the Institute, a brief account of what he/she proposes to achieve, if
appointed to the post of Director and a full Curriculum Vitae including the date of birth
of the applicant.

Where the present incumbent Director is an applicant, he/she shall give a report
highlighting accomplishments during his/her first period of the office, in addition to
the documents mentioned in Paragraph (iii) above.

a. If the appointing authority of the Director is the UGC, the Deputy Registrar /Senior
Assistant Registrar/Assistant Registrar who is the Secretary to the Board of
Management of the Institute immediately after publishing the advertisement
calling applications for the Post of Director of the Institute concerned shall request
the UGC for the appointment of a suitable person to serve as the Observer of the
UGC to witness the proceedings of the Special Meeting of the Board of Management
convened for the purpose of recommending a panel of three (03) names. UGC shall
provide the Terms of Reference of the Observer of the UGC at the time of
appointment.

b. If the appointing authority of the Director is the Council of the University to which
the Institute concerned is attached, the Deputy Registrar/Senior Assistant
Registrar /Assistant Registrar who is the Secretary to the Board of Management of
the Institute immediately after publishing the advertisement calling applications
for the Post of Director of the Institute concerned, shall request the Governing
Authority of the University for the appointment of a suitable person to serve as the
Observer to witness the proceedings of the Special Meeting of the Board of
Management convened for the purpose of recommending a panel of three (03)
names. The Secretary to the Council shall make a request to the UGC to provide a
copy of the Terms of Reference of the Observer to be given to him/her at the time
of appointment of the Observer.

The Deputy Registrar/Senior Assistant Registrar/Assistant Registrar who is the
Secretary to the Board of Management of the Institute concerned should be the
Convener of the Special Meeting of the Board of Management and he/she shall convene
the Special Meeting of the Board of Management on a working day within two months
after the closing date of applications, and summon the candidates in person before the
Special Meeting of the Board of Management for an interview.

The Deputy Registrar/Senior Assistant Registrar/Assistant Registrar who is the
Secretary to the Board of Management of the Institute concerned shall also ensure that
the copies of the documents as per paragraphs (iii) and/or (iv) above, submitted by all
candidates along with the notice of holding the Special meeting of the Board of
Management together with the Mark Sheet are circulated among all the members of
the Board of Management and to the Observer appointed by the UGC/Council of the
University as the case may be, at least two weeks prior to the scheduled Special
meeting of the Board of Management.

In an exceptional situation, if any candidate is not in a position to appear before the
Special meeting of the Board of Management, he/she shall be allowed to appear for the
interview via virtual mode.

However, when an incumbent member(s) of the Board of Management of the Institute
concerned is a candidate, the Secretary to the Board of Management should not
summon such member(s) to the, Special Meeting of the Board of Management and also
ensure that the applications submitted by candidates would not be circulated to such
a member(s).


----- Page 3 -----
(viii)

(ix)

(x)

The UGC/Council appointed observer shall be present at the Special Meeting of the
Board of Management.

Each Candidate shall be summoned before the Special Meeting of the Board of
Management for a brief presentation of minimum ten (10) minutes duration but not
exceeding fifteen (15) minutes. However, no candidate shall participate for a
presentation and evaluation of other candidates even though such candidate is a
Member of the Board of Management. Each Candidate shall be interviewed at the

- Special Meeting of the Board of Management as per the Criteria and Elements

 

prescribed in the Mark Sheet given in Annex I.

 

Each member present at the Special meeting of the Board of Management shall make
his/her assessment of each candidate by assigning marks individually for each
element of the seven (7) Criteria listed by giving marks on a scale of 1-10 individually
for each Criterion prescribed, and finally computing the total marks accrued by each
candidate by adding up the marks assigned for each Criterion in the Mark Sheet.
Criteria, Elements and Weightages given in the Mark Sheet shall not be changed.

The final marks for each candidate shall be calculated by adding the averages of
individual marks of seven (7) criteria given by each member of Board of Management.
Board of Management shall then compile its report with the signatures of each
member present at the Special Meeting of the Board of Management.

The Report of the Special Meeting of the Board of Management recommending three
names of the candidates shall be prepared in order to be forwarded to the respective
appointing authority through the relevant statutory bodies as specified in Paragraph
3.(x) along with the individual Mark Sheets of the Members of the Board of
Management, and the composite mark sheet of the assessment.

Thereafter, depending on the provisions stipulated in the relevant Ordinance issued
with regard to the Institute, the Board of Management should take one of the following
steps, when sending the Report of the Special meeting of the Board of Management
along with the individual Mark Sheets of the Members of the Board of Management,
and the composite mark sheet of the assessment as specified in 3. (ix) above.

(a) If the Ordinance has stipulated that the subsequent Director should be appointed
by the UGC, based on the recommendation of the Council of the University to which
the Institute is attached, from among a panel of three (03) persons nominated by
the Board of Management;

The Board of Management shall send the panel of three (03) names listed
according to the order of merit to the Council to which the Institute is
attached, for it to recommend one name to the UGC to make the
appointment to the Post of Director.

(b) If the Ordinance has stipulated that the subsequent Director should be appointed
by the Council to which the Institute is attached, based on the recommendation of
the Board of Management;

The Board of Management shall send the panel of three (03) names listed
according to the order of merit to the Council to which the Institute is
attached, to make the appointment to the Post of Director.


----- Page 4 -----
(c) If the Ordinance has stipulated that the subsequent Directors should be
appointed by the UGC based on the nominations of the Board of Management;

The Board of Management shall send a panel of three (03) names listed
accordingly to the order of merit to the UGC to make the appointment for
the purpose of appointing the subsequent Director.

However, in such situation, the Institute should send the three (03)
nominations through the University to which the Institute is attached for
information.

(xi) It is a mandatory requirement for Members of the Board of Management to be
physically present at the proceedings of the Special meeting of the Board. of
Management except under exceptional circumstances, and they should refrain from
divulging any information with regards to such proceedings.

4, Where the advertisement fails to find three applicants, the process shall begin afresh by
publishing the advertisement more widely. The process shall be repeated until three candidates are

recommended.

5. Provisions of this Circular will be effective from 25.05.2022 and Commission Circular No.
07/2020 of 11.09.2020 will be repealed from that date without prejudice to any action taken so far in

terms of the said circular.

6. Please take action accordingly.

—senior Prof. Sanjpath Amaratunge

Chairman

Copies:

Secretary to H.E. the President

Secretary/ Ministry of Education
Chairman’s Office /UGC
Vice-Chairman/UGC

Secretary/UGC
Registrars of Universities
. Deans of Faculties
9. Accountant/UGC
10. Bursars of Universities
11. Librarians/SAL/AL of the Higher Educational Institutions /Institutes
12. Deputy Registrars/ Snr. Asst. Registrars/Asst. Registrars of Campuses/Institutes
13. Deputy Bursars/Snr. Asst. Bursars/ Asst. Bursars of Campuses/Institutes
14. Internal Auditor/UGC
15. Govt. Audit Superintendents of Universities
16. Snr. Asst. Int. Auditors of HEIs
17. Secretaries of Trade Unions
18. Auditor -General

File No. UGC/HR/2/3/283

1
2
3
4A.
5. Members of the UGC
6
7
8


----- Page 5 -----
Annex |
Assessment Scheme for the Board of Management for assessing the Candidates for the Selection of the Director
(Mark sheet)

A Seven Point Evaluation Scheme for Document Evaluation and Presentation (Please see overleaf for guidelines)

INSTITUTE : 0... ee ceccececccccecescecescescecesceccecereness cusoncesunceenceensnsanesacansensnisis wei

  
 
  
 
 
 
  
    
     
  
 
   

 

 

Criteria, Scale of Marking and Weightages

 

 

Strategic Effective Holistic Academic and Personal Professional Managerial
Focus leadership Thinking Research Integrity Communication Competence
[Conceptual Excellence
Skills
Ability to think Proven Ability to see Proven track Unblemished Ability to Proven track
strategically capability of the "big record in career with communicate record of
and steer the leading an picture" from academic and transparency with clarity and | consistent high
institution in institution in global and research in all dealings confidence performance in Total
. line with an exemplary national matters administration
No | Name of Candidates gee ge . Score
institutional manner perspectives
goals and with an
national needs integrated
approach

 

ie Score wR Score at Score ae Score
1-10 (Rx1.5) 1-10 (Rx1) 1-10 (Rx1) 1-10 (Rx1.5)

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Name‘of the BOM M@Mbefiissscincesesscmcrnrancmassncenes SiN atUNe! ssccisvwesesmeceunmevieoneecanensnemuswenuanensnrsneresseneseanaane

Date:: Cadence nceneeceneeenececaseensecccencescasnasesene


----- Page 6 -----
Mark sheet

Annex |

Guidelines for the Board of Management Members on the use Mark sheet are given below.

(i)

Elements/ Attributes to be considered in arriving at a judgment of a candidates with respect to 7 criteria are given below.
Criteria 1:

(a)
(b)
(c)
(d)
(e)

Clarity of the vision stated

Practicality of the vision stated

Quality and relevance of the strategies mentioned

Evidence for proven strategy implementation

Evidence for candidate's ability to think strategically on contemporary issues

Criteria 2:

(a)
(b)

(c)
(d)
(e)

Significant institutional developments initiated/achieved as a Director

Significant institutional developments initiated/achieved as Rector/Director of an Institute /Dean of a Faculty or higher administrative
capacity in the university system

Significant achievements/ developments or reforms initiated as a Head of Academic Department or Director of a Centre/Unit or Director,
Welfare or Proctor or in a similar capacity

Evidence of significant contributions in Executive/Non-executive Leadership positions held in Professional and Statutory Bodies, Public or
Private Sector Organizations

Evidence provided on the recognition by the public at large

Criteria 3:

(a)
(b)
(c)
(d)

(a)
(b)
(c)
(d)

Evidence of working with both public and private sectors on advisory capacity on sectoral/national development

Evidence of understanding complex challenges faced by the Institutions and demonstrating a holistic approach

Evidence for developing viable solution for institutional/academic/professional/issues with the engagement of all key stakeholders
Evidence for broader understanding of socio-economic and religious-cultural forces and their possible current and future impact on the
institutions

Criteria 4:

Career progression as an academic and the level of involvement in improving relevance and quality of study programmes
Evidence for proven track record of research performance and research promotions

Evidence of academic expertise in his/her discipline and other broad areas

Evidence for outstanding academic and research recognition at institutional/national /international levels


----- Page 7 -----
(ii)

(iii)

Annex |

Criteria 5:

(a) Evidence for unblemished tract record

(b) Evidence for appreciations integrity

(c) Evidence for guiding others ethically

(d) Evidence for being a role model for the students and faculty

Criteria 6:

(a) Evidence for persuasive speaking in public front

(b) Evidence for leading successful discussion/deliberations

(c) Evidence for publishing articles for general public

(d) Evidence for communicating effectively within academic/scientific/public/media forums

Criteria 7:

(a) Evidence for sound financial administration

(b) Evidence for quality academic administration

(c) Evidence for effectively managing human resources

(d) Evidence for having sound understanding on statues, establishments and financial management procedures pertaining to university
administration

Each Member of the Board of Management shall perform a Desk Evaluation of respective candidates by examining the evidences/information
provided by the candidates as per the Paragraph (iii) &/or (iv) of the Commission Circular No. 10/2022 of 23.05.2022 and arrive at a tentative
judgement on the extent of fulfillment of the criteria-specific elements/attributes of each criterion and assign a tentative mark in 1 to 10 scale
for the respective criteria and arrive at a tentative total score of the candidate. Desk evaluation shall be completed before the scheduled Special
Board of Management meeting.

The final marks for each criterion and the candidate's total score shall be arrived only after the presentation and interviewing the individual
candidate.

XXXXXXKXXK

