----- Page 1 -----
 

UNIVERSITY GRANTS COMMISSION

COMMISSION CIRCULARNO. 01/2024 No. 20, Ward Place
Colombo 07

January 01, 2024
Vice-Chancellors of Universities
Rectors of Campuses
Directors of Institutes

APPOINTMENT TO THE POST OF DIRECTOR OF AN INSTITUTE

Your attention is invited to Commission Circular No. 10/2022 of 23.05.2022 on the above
which specified the procedure to be followed for the appointment to the post of Director of an
Institute or Centre for Higher Learning established under Section 24A(1) of the Universities Act
No. 16 of 1978 as amended.

2. The University Grants Commission, at its 1115 meeting held on 14.12.2023, having
reviewed the existing procedure being followed in making appointment to the post of Director of
an Institute or Centre for Higher Learning established under Section 24A(1) of the Universities
Act No. 16 of 1978 (as amended) specified in the Commission Circular No. 10/2022, decided to
repeal that circular and replace with this circular.

3. Accordingly, the Board of Management of the Institute or Centre for Higher Learning
(hereinafter referred to as the Institute) shall follow the amended procedure mentioned below;

(i) Applications for the Post of Director shall be invited by the Deputy
Registrar/Senior Assistant Registrar/Assistant Registrar, who is the Secretary to
the Board of Management of the Institute concerned, by a notice published in the
national newspapers in Sinhala, Tamil and English languages. Such notice shall
specifically refer to this Circular with its Number and Date, inform the
prospective Applicants that the selection will be made in the manner set out in
this Circular. The Notice shall contain an electronic mail address for which the
Applications and other documents shall be submitted.

(ii) | The applicants should be citizens of Sri Lanka and shall be less than 63 years of
age by the closing date of the applications.

(iii) The Deputy Registrar/Senior Assistant Registrar/Assistant Registrar, who is the
Secretary to the Board of Management of the Institute concerned, shall publish
the notice calling applications,

(a) within a period of one month immediately falling prior to the period of six
(06) months, reckoning from the last date of the term of the incumbent
Director.

OR


----- Page 2 -----
(iv)

(v)

(vi)

(vii)

(b) within such period as directed by the University Grants Commission in
the event of a vacancy created by resignation or removal from office as
per the relevant provision in the Ordinance issued in respect of the
Institute concerned or in any other way the incumbent Director ceases to
hold the office of Director.

The Board of Management of the Institute concerned shall appoint a suitable
Search Committee comprising three (03) Senior Academics in the rank of
Professor/Senior Professor to search for and encourage eminent persons to
apply when the Deputy Registrar/Senior Assistant Registrar/Assistant Registrar
advertises vacancy. The Committee should consist of the following;

{a) A Dean of the University to which the Institute concerned is affiliated, who
shall be the Chair,

(b) Two Members Nominated by the Board of Management, who are not
members of the Board of Management.

However, any eminent person encouraged by the Committee to apply has no
preferential right to be the Director or any preference in evaluation process
stipulated below.

The prospective applicant shall be requested to submit, together with his/her
application, a Statement of Vision for the development of the Institute, a brief
account of what he/she proposes to achieve, if appointed to the post of Director
and a full Curriculum Vitae including the date of birth of the applicant. In
addition, a soft copy of the above documents together with any other supporting
documents in PDF format should be submitted to the electronic mail address
specified by the Deputy Registrar/Senior Assistant Registrar/Assistant Registrar
in the advertisement.

Where the incumbent Director is an applicant or had held the post of Director of
the Institute before, he/she shall give a Report highlighting accomplishments
during his/her first period of the office, in addition to the documents mentioned
in Paragraph (v) above. A Soft Copy of this Report in PDF format should also be
submitted to the electronic mail address specified by the Deputy
Registrar /Senior Assistant Registrar/Assistant Registrar in the advertisement.

a. If the appointing authority of the Director is the UGC, the Deputy
Registrar/Senior Assistant Registrar/Assistant Registrar, who is the Secretary
to the Board of Management of the Institute, immediately after publishing the
advertisement calling applications for the Post of Director of the Institute
concerned shall request the UGC for the appointment of a suitable person to
serve as the Observer of the UGC to witness the proceedings of the Special
Meeting of the Board of Management convened for the purpose of
recommending a panel of three (03) names. UGC shall provide the Terms of
Reference of the Observer of the UGC at the time of appointment.

b. If the appointing authority of the Director is the Council of the University to
which the Institute concerned is affiliated, the Deputy Registrar/Senior
Assistant Registrar/Assistant Registrar, who is the Secretary to the Board of
Management of the Institute, immediately after publishing the advertisement


----- Page 3 -----
(viii)

(ix)

(x)

(xi)

(xii)

3

calling applications for the Post of Director of the Institute concerned, shall
request the Governing Authority of the University for the appointment of a
suitable person to serve as the Observer to witness the proceedings of the
Special Meeting of the Board of Management convened for the purpose of
recommending a panel of three (03) names. The Secretary to the Council shall
make a request to the UGC to provide a copy of the Terms of Reference of the
Observer to be given to him/her at the time of appointment of the Observer.

The Deputy Registrar/Senior Assistant Registrar/Assistant Registrar, who is the
Secretary to the Board of Management of the Institute concerned, shall be the
Convener of the Special Meeting of the Board of Management and he/she shall
convene the Special Meeting of the Board of Management on a working day
within two months after the closing date of applications, and summon the
applicants in person before the Special Meeting of the Board of Management for
evaluation and for an interview. Provided in an exceptional situation, if any
applicant is not in a position to appear before the Special Meeting of the Board of
Management in person, he/she shall be allowed to appear via virtual mode, with
prior notice to the Deputy Registrar/Senior Assistant Registrar/Assistant
Registrar.

The Deputy Registrar/Senior Assistant Registrar/Assistant Registrar, who is the
Secretary to the Board of Management of the Institute concerned, shall also
ensure that the copies of all the documents as per paragraphs (v) and/or (vi)
above submitted by all applicants in a soft copy along with the notice of holding
the Special meeting of the Board of Management together with the Mark Sheet
given in the Annexure hereto in hard copy, are circulated among all the members
of the Board of Management and to the Observer appointed by the UGC/Council
of the University as the case may be, at least two weeks prior to the scheduled
Special Meeting of the Board of Management. However, when an incumbent
member(s) of the Board of Management of the Institute concerned is an
applicant, the Secretary to the Board of Management should not summon such
member(s) to the Special Meeting of the Board of Management and also ensure
that the applications and other documents submitted by applicants are not
circulated to such a member(s):

The UGC/Council appointed observer shall be present at the Special Meeting of
the Board of Management.

If Director is an applicant for the post of the Director, Deputy Director shall be
the Chairperson of the Special Meeting of the Board of Management and in
absence of the Deputy Director or the Deputy Director is also an applicant, the
Board of Management at the Special Meeting shall appoint a Temporary
Chairperson either unanimously or by majority, for the purpose of chairing the
Special Meeting of the Board of Management.

If any issue arises as to manner how to conduct the meeting in pursuance of this
Circular or any matter arisen out of the Circular at the Special meeting, before
any decision is made by the Chairperson, he/she should obtain views of the
UGC/Council appointed Observer. However, if any issue arisen as to
interpretation in any matter in this Circular or manner of conducting the Special
Meeting, prior to the Special Meeting of the Board of Management, the Secretary
to the Board of Management shall obtain the UGC interpretation and instructions,
in writing.

 


----- Page 4 -----
(xiii)

(xiv)

- (xv)

(xvi)

(xvii)

(xviii)

(xix)

(xx)

4 ’

The Members of the Board of Management present at the Special Meeting of the
Board of Management shall use the prescribed Mark Sheet given in Annexure
hereto, for purpose of giving marks to the applicants. Provided that no Board of
Management Member is allowed to participate in the Special Meeting of the
Board of Management via virtual mode or any other means of remote access.

Applicants shall be summoned before the Special Meeting of the Board of
Management for a brief presentation of minimum ten (10) minutes duration but
not exceeding fifteen (15) minutes. No other applicant shall be permitted to stay ©
in the meeting place of the Special meeting or listen to the presentation of other
candidates, even though such applicant is a Member of the Board of Management.

Chair or any member of the Board of Management has a right to question any
applicant to elicit further information as to matters mentioned in his/her
Statement of Vision, Curriculum Vitae and presentation or to ascertain his/her
suitability for the post of Director.

Each member of the Board of Management shall make their own assessment of
each applicant by giving marks on a scale of 0 - 10 (10 being highest) individually
for each of the seven Criteria prescribed and compute the total marks accrued by
each applicant by adding up the marks assigned for each Criterion and place
his/her signature. The Criteria and Weightages given in the Mark Sheet
prescribed shall not be changed.

Total marks for each applicant shall be calculated by averaging total marks under
seven criteria given to the applicants, by each member of the Board of
Management, and the composite Mark Sheet must be signed by all Board of
Management members present at the Special Meeting of the Board of
Management and they should refrain from divulging any information with regard
to proceedings of the Special Meeting of the Board of Management.

Final Mark Sheet signed by all Board of Management Members participated at the
Special Meeting of the Board of Management shall be authenticated by the
Secretary of the Board of Management and by the UGC/Council appointed
Observer.

The Report of the Special Meeting of the Board of Management shall be prepared
by listing Three (3) Names in order of marks obtained by each applicant, together
with the marks, and signed by each member of the Board of Management present
at the Special Meeting of the Board of Management.

The Report of the Special Meeting of the Board of Management recommending
Three (3) names of the applicants in order of marks, together with the
Applications, documents submitted with Applications, notice convening Special
Meeting of the Board of Management, Attendance Sheet of the Board of
Management, Individual Mark Sheets signed by the Board of Management
Members participated and Total Composite Mark Sheet signed by all Board of
Management members participated at the Special Meeting of the Board of
Management authenticated by the Secretary and the UGC/Council appointed
Observer shall be submitted to the respective appointing authority through the
relevant statutory bodies as specified in paragraph 3.(xxii), within three days
from the date of the Special Meeting of the Board of Management.


----- Page 5 -----
(xxi)

(xxii)

(xxiii)

(xxiv)

5

The UGC/Council appointed Observer shall, forthwith after the Special Meeting of
the Board of Management, present a Confidential Report to the respective
appointing authority through the relevant statutory bodies, reporting his/her
observations as to the manner the selection, evaluation and interview process
conducted and shall also report his/her view on any shortcomings in the
selection process to enable the appointing authority to take any appropriate
action.

Thereafter, depending on the provisions stipulated in the relevant Ordinance
issued with regard to the Institute, the Board of Management should take one of
the following steps, when sending the Report of the Special meeting of the Board
of Management along with the relevant documents as specified in 3. (xx) above.

(a) If the Ordinance has stipulated that the subsequent Directors should be
appointed by the UGC, based on the recommendation of the Council of the
University to which the Institute is attached, from among a panel of three
(03) persons nominated by the Board of Management;

The Board of Management shall send the panel of three (03) names
listed according to the order of merit to the Council to which the
Institute is attached, for it to recommend one name to the UGC to
make the appointment to the Post of Director.

(b) If the Ordinance has stipulated that the subsequent Director should be
appointed by the Council to which the Institute is attached, based on the
recommendation of the Board of Management;

The Board of Management shall send the panel of three (03) names
listed according to the order of merit to the Council to which the
Institute is attached, to make the appointment to the Post of Director.

(c) If the Ordinance has stipulated that the subsequent Directors should be
appointed by the UGC based on the nominations of the Board of
Management;

The Board of Management shall send a panel of three (03) names
listed accordingly to the order of merit to the UGC to make the
appointment for the purpose of appointing the subsequent Director.

However, in such situation, the Institute should send the three (03)
nominations through the University to which the Institute is
attached for information.

The Appointing Authority on receipt of recommendations in terms of (xxii) as
described under (a), (b) and (c) and having considered the report of the observer
shall appoint the Director.

Any interpretation as to matters in this Circular or applicability of the Circular,
shall be decided by the UGC and any such decision of the UGC shall be final.


----- Page 6 -----
6 a

4. Where the advertisement fails to find three applicants, the process shall begin afresh by
publishing the advertisement more widely. The process shall be repeated until three candidates
are recommended by the Board of Management. If the term of the Director is about to complete
and no Deputy Director to perform the duty of the Director, the Secretary to the Board of
Management shall bring the same to notice of the UGC.

5. Provisions of this Circular and New Procedure contained herein are effective from
01.01.2024 and the Commission Circular No. 10/2022 of 23.05.2022 is hereby repealed.

6. Please take action accordingly.

 

Chairman

Copies: 1. Secretary to H.E. the President
2. Secretary/ Ministry of Education
3. Chairman’s Office/UGC
4, Vice-Chairman/UGC

5. Members of the UGC

6. Secretary/UGC

7. Registrars of Universities

8. Deans of Faculties

9. Accountant/UGC

10. Bursars of Universities

11. Librarians/SAL/AL of the Higher Educational Institutions /Institutes

12. Deputy Registrars/ Snr. Asst. Registrars/Asst. Registrars of Campuses/Institutes
13. Deputy Bursars/Snr. Asst. Bursars/ Asst, Bursars of Campuses/Institutes

14. Internal Auditor/UGC

15. Govt. Audit Superintendents of Universities

16. Snr. Asst. Int. Auditors of HEIs

17. Secretaries of Trade Unions

18. Auditor -General

File No. UGC/HR/2/3/283


----- Page 7 -----
Annex |

Assessment Scheme for the Board of Management for assessing Candidates for the Selection of a Director
(Mark sheet) |

A Seven Point Evaluation Scheme for Document Evaluation and Presentation (Please see overleaf for guidelines)
INSTITUTC : 0... cccccsescceecereesversennneseccssncousussssecececesssenananecccccnaasapaceseeeeessessenegsees

Criteria, Scale of Marking and Weightages

Strategic Effective Holistic Academic and Personal Professional Managerial
Focus leadership Thinking Research Integrity Communication Connaterse
/Conceptual Excellence
Skills
Ability to think Proven Ability to see Proven track Unblemished Ability to Proven track
strategically capability of the "big record in career with communicate record of
and steer the leading an picture" from academic and transparency with clarity and consistent high
institution in institution in global and research in all dealings confidence performance in
Name of Candidates line with an exemplary national matters administration
institutional manner perspectives
goals and with an
national needs integrated

 

approach

| 10% | | 10% |

Marks |
(m) ean | |

 

Name of the BoM Member: ............:cesesseserereeceereeeeeceetteeeeees SIQMALULE! 0.0... ceeecsssensereeseneensensacssnsecassnesceneassatsetanseenteeedeaenas


----- Page 8 -----
©

Annex | i

Mark sheet

Guidelines for the Board of Management Members on the use of the Mark sheet:

(i)

Elements/ Attributes to be considered in arriving at a judgment of a candidate with respect to 7 criteria are given below.
Criteria 1:

(a) Clarity of the vision stated

(b) Practicality of the vision stated

(c) Quality and relevance of the strategies mentioned

(d) Evidence for proven strategy implementation

(e) Evidence for candidate's ability to think strategically on contemporary issues

Criteria 2:

(a) Significant institutional developments initiated/achieved as a Director

(b) Significant institutional developments initiated/achieved as Rector/Director of an Institute /Dean of a Faculty or higher administrative
capacity in the university system

(c) Significant achievements/ developments or reforms initiated as a Head of Academic Department or Director of a Centre/Unit or Director,
Welfare or Proctor or ina similar capacity

(d) Evidence of significant contributions in Executive/Non-executive Leadership positions held in Professional and Statutory Bodies, Public or

- Private Sector Organizations
{e) Evidence provided on the recognition by the public at large

Criteria 3:

(a) Evidence of working with both public and private sectors on advisory capacity on sectoral/national development

(b) Evidence of understanding complex challenges faced by the Institutions and demonstrating a holistic approach

(c) Evidence for developing viable solution for institutional/academic/professional/issues with the engagement of all key stakeholders

(d) Evidence for broader understanding of socio-economic and religious-cultural forces and their possible current and future impact on the
institutions

Criteria 4:

(a) Career progression as an academic and the level of involvement in improving relevance and quality of study programmes
(b) Evidence for proven track record of research performance and research promotions

(c) Evidence of academic expertise in his/her discipline and other broad areas

(a) Evidence for outstanding academic and research recognition at institutional/national /international levels


----- Page 9 -----
(ii)

(iii)

Annex |

Criteria 5:

(a) Evidence for unbiemished tract record

(b) Evidence for appreciations integrity

{c) Evidence for guiding others ethically

{d) Evidence for being a role model for the students and faculty ;

Criteria 6:

(a) Evidence for persuasive speaking in public front

(b) Evidence for leading successful! discussion/deliberations

(c) Evidence for publishing articles for general public

{d) Evidence for communicating effectively within academic/scientific/public/media forums

Criteria 7:

(a) Evidence for sound financial administration

(b) Evidence for quality academic administration

(c) Evidence for effectively managing human resources

(d) Evidence for having sound understanding on statues, establishments- and financial management procedures pertaining to university
administration

 

Each Member of the Board of Management shall perform a Desk Evaluation of respective candidates by examining the evidences/information
provided by the candidates as per the Paragraph (v) &/or (vi) of the Commission Circular No. 01/2024 of 01.01.2024 and arrive atla tentative
judgement on the extent of fulfillment of the criteria-specific elements/attributes of each criterion and assign a tentative mark in 9 to 10 scale
for the respective criteria. Desk evaluation shall be completed before the scheduled Specia! Board of Management meeting.

|
|
The final marks for each criterion and the candidate's total score shall be arrived only after the presentation and interviewing the individual
candidate. :

XXXXXXXX

