

--- BEGIN DOCUMENT: circular1.pdf ---

--- Document Metadata: circular1.pdf ---
title: 
author: 
subject: 
creator: TOSHIBA e-STUDIO3518A
producer: SECnvtToPDF V1.0
creation_date: 2024-01-04 23:37
modification_date: 2024-01-05 11:46
pages: 9
filename: circular1.pdf
file_size_kb: 308.28

----- circular1.pdf: Page 1 -----
 

UNIVERSITY GRANTS COMMISSION

COMMISSION CIRCULARNO. 01/2024 No. 20, Ward Place
Colombo 07

January 01, 2024
Vice-Chancellors of Universities
Rectors of Campuses
Directors of Institutes

APPOINTMENT TO THE POST OF DIRECTOR OF AN INSTITUTE

Your attention is invited to Commission Circular No. 10/2022 of 23.05.2022 on the above
which specified the procedure to be followed for the appointment to the post of Director of an
Institute or Centre for Higher Learning established under Section 24A(1) of the Universities Act
No. 16 of 1978 as amended.

2. The University Grants Commission, at its 1115 meeting held on 14.12.2023, having
reviewed the existing procedure being followed in making appointment to the post of Director of
an Institute or Centre for Higher Learning established under Section 24A(1) of the Universities
Act No. 16 of 1978 (as amended) specified in the Commission Circular No. 10/2022, decided to
repeal that circular and replace with this circular.

3. Accordingly, the Board of Management of the Institute or Centre for Higher Learning
(hereinafter referred to as the Institute) shall follow the amended procedure mentioned below;

(i) Applications for the Post of Director shall be invited by the Deputy
Registrar/Senior Assistant Registrar/Assistant Registrar, who is the Secretary to
the Board of Management of the Institute concerned, by a notice published in the
national newspapers in Sinhala, Tamil and English languages. Such notice shall
specifically refer to this Circular with its Number and Date, inform the
prospective Applicants that the selection will be made in the manner set out in
this Circular. The Notice shall contain an electronic mail address for which the
Applications and other documents shall be submitted.

(ii) | The applicants should be citizens of Sri Lanka and shall be less than 63 years of
age by the closing date of the applications.

(iii) The Deputy Registrar/Senior Assistant Registrar/Assistant Registrar, who is the
Secretary to the Board of Management of the Institute concerned, shall publish
the notice calling applications,

(a) within a period of one month immediately falling prior to the period of six
(06) months, reckoning from the last date of the term of the incumbent
Director.

OR


----- circular1.pdf: Page 2 -----
(iv)

(v)

(vi)

(vii)

(b) within such period as directed by the University Grants Commission in
the event of a vacancy created by resignation or removal from office as
per the relevant provision in the Ordinance issued in respect of the
Institute concerned or in any other way the incumbent Director ceases to
hold the office of Director.

The Board of Management of the Institute concerned shall appoint a suitable
Search Committee comprising three (03) Senior Academics in the rank of
Professor/Senior Professor to search for and encourage eminent persons to
apply when the Deputy Registrar/Senior Assistant Registrar/Assistant Registrar
advertises vacancy. The Committee should consist of the following;

{a) A Dean of the University to which the Institute concerned is affiliated, who
shall be the Chair,

(b) Two Members Nominated by the Board of Management, who are not
members of the Board of Management.

However, any eminent person encouraged by the Committee to apply has no
preferential right to be the Director or any preference in evaluation process
stipulated below.

The prospective applicant shall be requested to submit, together with his/her
application, a Statement of Vision for the development of the Institute, a brief
account of what he/she proposes to achieve, if appointed to the post of Director
and a full Curriculum Vitae including the date of birth of the applicant. In
addition, a soft copy of the above documents together with any other supporting
documents in PDF format should be submitted to the electronic mail address
specified by the Deputy Registrar/Senior Assistant Registrar/Assistant Registrar
in the advertisement.

Where the incumbent Director is an applicant or had held the post of Director of
the Institute before, he/she shall give a Report highlighting accomplishments
during his/her first period of the office, in addition to the documents mentioned
in Paragraph (v) above. A Soft Copy of this Report in PDF format should also be
submitted to the electronic mail address specified by the Deputy
Registrar /Senior Assistant Registrar/Assistant Registrar in the advertisement.

a. If the appointing authority of the Director is the UGC, the Deputy
Registrar/Senior Assistant Registrar/Assistant Registrar, who is the Secretary
to the Board of Management of the Institute, immediately after publishing the
advertisement calling applications for the Post of Director of the Institute
concerned shall request the UGC for the appointment of a suitable person to
serve as the Observer of the UGC to witness the proceedings of the Special
Meeting of the Board of Management convened for the purpose of
recommending a panel of three (03) names. UGC shall provide the Terms of
Reference of the Observer of the UGC at the time of appointment.

b. If the appointing authority of the Director is the Council of the University to
which the Institute concerned is affiliated, the Deputy Registrar/Senior
Assistant Registrar/Assistant Registrar, who is the Secretary to the Board of
Management of the Institute, immediately after publishing the advertisement


----- circular1.pdf: Page 3 -----
(viii)

(ix)

(x)

(xi)

(xii)

3

calling applications for the Post of Director of the Institute concerned, shall
request the Governing Authority of the University for the appointment of a
suitable person to serve as the Observer to witness the proceedings of the
Special Meeting of the Board of Management convened for the purpose of
recommending a panel of three (03) names. The Secretary to the Council shall
make a request to the UGC to provide a copy of the Terms of Reference of the
Observer to be given to him/her at the time of appointment of the Observer.

The Deputy Registrar/Senior Assistant Registrar/Assistant Registrar, who is the
Secretary to the Board of Management of the Institute concerned, shall be the
Convener of the Special Meeting of the Board of Management and he/she shall
convene the Special Meeting of the Board of Management on a working day
within two months after the closing date of applications, and summon the
applicants in person before the Special Meeting of the Board of Management for
evaluation and for an interview. Provided in an exceptional situation, if any
applicant is not in a position to appear before the Special Meeting of the Board of
Management in person, he/she shall be allowed to appear via virtual mode, with
prior notice to the Deputy Registrar/Senior Assistant Registrar/Assistant
Registrar.

The Deputy Registrar/Senior Assistant Registrar/Assistant Registrar, who is the
Secretary to the Board of Management of the Institute concerned, shall also
ensure that the copies of all the documents as per paragraphs (v) and/or (vi)
above submitted by all applicants in a soft copy along with the notice of holding
the Special meeting of the Board of Management together with the Mark Sheet
given in the Annexure hereto in hard copy, are circulated among all the members
of the Board of Management and to the Observer appointed by the UGC/Council
of the University as the case may be, at least two weeks prior to the scheduled
Special Meeting of the Board of Management. However, when an incumbent
member(s) of the Board of Management of the Institute concerned is an
applicant, the Secretary to the Board of Management should not summon such
member(s) to the Special Meeting of the Board of Management and also ensure
that the applications and other documents submitted by applicants are not
circulated to such a member(s):

The UGC/Council appointed observer shall be present at the Special Meeting of
the Board of Management.

If Director is an applicant for the post of the Director, Deputy Director shall be
the Chairperson of the Special Meeting of the Board of Management and in
absence of the Deputy Director or the Deputy Director is also an applicant, the
Board of Management at the Special Meeting shall appoint a Temporary
Chairperson either unanimously or by majority, for the purpose of chairing the
Special Meeting of the Board of Management.

If any issue arises as to manner how to conduct the meeting in pursuance of this
Circular or any matter arisen out of the Circular at the Special meeting, before
any decision is made by the Chairperson, he/she should obtain views of the
UGC/Council appointed Observer. However, if any issue arisen as to
interpretation in any matter in this Circular or manner of conducting the Special
Meeting, prior to the Special Meeting of the Board of Management, the Secretary
to the Board of Management shall obtain the UGC interpretation and instructions,
in writing.

 


----- circular1.pdf: Page 4 -----
(xiii)

(xiv)

- (xv)

(xvi)

(xvii)

(xviii)

(xix)

(xx)

4 ’

The Members of the Board of Management present at the Special Meeting of the
Board of Management shall use the prescribed Mark Sheet given in Annexure
hereto, for purpose of giving marks to the applicants. Provided that no Board of
Management Member is allowed to participate in the Special Meeting of the
Board of Management via virtual mode or any other means of remote access.

Applicants shall be summoned before the Special Meeting of the Board of
Management for a brief presentation of minimum ten (10) minutes duration but
not exceeding fifteen (15) minutes. No other applicant shall be permitted to stay ©
in the meeting place of the Special meeting or listen to the presentation of other
candidates, even though such applicant is a Member of the Board of Management.

Chair or any member of the Board of Management has a right to question any
applicant to elicit further information as to matters mentioned in his/her
Statement of Vision, Curriculum Vitae and presentation or to ascertain his/her
suitability for the post of Director.

Each member of the Board of Management shall make their own assessment of
each applicant by giving marks on a scale of 0 - 10 (10 being highest) individually
for each of the seven Criteria prescribed and compute the total marks accrued by
each applicant by adding up the marks assigned for each Criterion and place
his/her signature. The Criteria and Weightages given in the Mark Sheet
prescribed shall not be changed.

Total marks for each applicant shall be calculated by averaging total marks under
seven criteria given to the applicants, by each member of the Board of
Management, and the composite Mark Sheet must be signed by all Board of
Management members present at the Special Meeting of the Board of
Management and they should refrain from divulging any information with regard
to proceedings of the Special Meeting of the Board of Management.

Final Mark Sheet signed by all Board of Management Members participated at the
Special Meeting of the Board of Management shall be authenticated by the
Secretary of the Board of Management and by the UGC/Council appointed
Observer.

The Report of the Special Meeting of the Board of Management shall be prepared
by listing Three (3) Names in order of marks obtained by each applicant, together
with the marks, and signed by each member of the Board of Management present
at the Special Meeting of the Board of Management.

The Report of the Special Meeting of the Board of Management recommending
Three (3) names of the applicants in order of marks, together with the
Applications, documents submitted with Applications, notice convening Special
Meeting of the Board of Management, Attendance Sheet of the Board of
Management, Individual Mark Sheets signed by the Board of Management
Members participated and Total Composite Mark Sheet signed by all Board of
Management members participated at the Special Meeting of the Board of
Management authenticated by the Secretary and the UGC/Council appointed
Observer shall be submitted to the respective appointing authority through the
relevant statutory bodies as specified in paragraph 3.(xxii), within three days
from the date of the Special Meeting of the Board of Management.


----- circular1.pdf: Page 5 -----
(xxi)

(xxii)

(xxiii)

(xxiv)

5

The UGC/Council appointed Observer shall, forthwith after the Special Meeting of
the Board of Management, present a Confidential Report to the respective
appointing authority through the relevant statutory bodies, reporting his/her
observations as to the manner the selection, evaluation and interview process
conducted and shall also report his/her view on any shortcomings in the
selection process to enable the appointing authority to take any appropriate
action.

Thereafter, depending on the provisions stipulated in the relevant Ordinance
issued with regard to the Institute, the Board of Management should take one of
the following steps, when sending the Report of the Special meeting of the Board
of Management along with the relevant documents as specified in 3. (xx) above.

(a) If the Ordinance has stipulated that the subsequent Directors should be
appointed by the UGC, based on the recommendation of the Council of the
University to which the Institute is attached, from among a panel of three
(03) persons nominated by the Board of Management;

The Board of Management shall send the panel of three (03) names
listed according to the order of merit to the Council to which the
Institute is attached, for it to recommend one name to the UGC to
make the appointment to the Post of Director.

(b) If the Ordinance has stipulated that the subsequent Director should be
appointed by the Council to which the Institute is attached, based on the
recommendation of the Board of Management;

The Board of Management shall send the panel of three (03) names
listed according to the order of merit to the Council to which the
Institute is attached, to make the appointment to the Post of Director.

(c) If the Ordinance has stipulated that the subsequent Directors should be
appointed by the UGC based on the nominations of the Board of
Management;

The Board of Management shall send a panel of three (03) names
listed accordingly to the order of merit to the UGC to make the
appointment for the purpose of appointing the subsequent Director.

However, in such situation, the Institute should send the three (03)
nominations through the University to which the Institute is
attached for information.

The Appointing Authority on receipt of recommendations in terms of (xxii) as
described under (a), (b) and (c) and having considered the report of the observer
shall appoint the Director.

Any interpretation as to matters in this Circular or applicability of the Circular,
shall be decided by the UGC and any such decision of the UGC shall be final.


----- circular1.pdf: Page 6 -----
6 a

4. Where the advertisement fails to find three applicants, the process shall begin afresh by
publishing the advertisement more widely. The process shall be repeated until three candidates
are recommended by the Board of Management. If the term of the Director is about to complete
and no Deputy Director to perform the duty of the Director, the Secretary to the Board of
Management shall bring the same to notice of the UGC.

5. Provisions of this Circular and New Procedure contained herein are effective from
01.01.2024 and the Commission Circular No. 10/2022 of 23.05.2022 is hereby repealed.

6. Please take action accordingly.

 

Chairman

Copies: 1. Secretary to H.E. the President
2. Secretary/ Ministry of Education
3. Chairman’s Office/UGC
4, Vice-Chairman/UGC

5. Members of the UGC

6. Secretary/UGC

7. Registrars of Universities

8. Deans of Faculties

9. Accountant/UGC

10. Bursars of Universities

11. Librarians/SAL/AL of the Higher Educational Institutions /Institutes

12. Deputy Registrars/ Snr. Asst. Registrars/Asst. Registrars of Campuses/Institutes
13. Deputy Bursars/Snr. Asst. Bursars/ Asst, Bursars of Campuses/Institutes

14. Internal Auditor/UGC

15. Govt. Audit Superintendents of Universities

16. Snr. Asst. Int. Auditors of HEIs

17. Secretaries of Trade Unions

18. Auditor -General

File No. UGC/HR/2/3/283


----- circular1.pdf: Page 7 -----
Annex |

Assessment Scheme for the Board of Management for assessing Candidates for the Selection of a Director
(Mark sheet) |

A Seven Point Evaluation Scheme for Document Evaluation and Presentation (Please see overleaf for guidelines)
INSTITUTC : 0... cccccsescceecereesversennneseccssncousussssecececesssenananecccccnaasapaceseeeeessessenegsees

Criteria, Scale of Marking and Weightages

Strategic Effective Holistic Academic and Personal Professional Managerial
Focus leadership Thinking Research Integrity Communication Connaterse
/Conceptual Excellence
Skills
Ability to think Proven Ability to see Proven track Unblemished Ability to Proven track
strategically capability of the "big record in career with communicate record of
and steer the leading an picture" from academic and transparency with clarity and consistent high
institution in institution in global and research in all dealings confidence performance in
Name of Candidates line with an exemplary national matters administration
institutional manner perspectives
goals and with an
national needs integrated

 

approach

| 10% | | 10% |

Marks |
(m) ean | |

 

Name of the BoM Member: ............:cesesseserereeceereeeeeceetteeeeees SIQMALULE! 0.0... ceeecsssensereeseneensensacssnsecassnesceneassatsetanseenteeedeaenas


----- circular1.pdf: Page 8 -----
©

Annex | i

Mark sheet

Guidelines for the Board of Management Members on the use of the Mark sheet:

(i)

Elements/ Attributes to be considered in arriving at a judgment of a candidate with respect to 7 criteria are given below.
Criteria 1:

(a) Clarity of the vision stated

(b) Practicality of the vision stated

(c) Quality and relevance of the strategies mentioned

(d) Evidence for proven strategy implementation

(e) Evidence for candidate's ability to think strategically on contemporary issues

Criteria 2:

(a) Significant institutional developments initiated/achieved as a Director

(b) Significant institutional developments initiated/achieved as Rector/Director of an Institute /Dean of a Faculty or higher administrative
capacity in the university system

(c) Significant achievements/ developments or reforms initiated as a Head of Academic Department or Director of a Centre/Unit or Director,
Welfare or Proctor or ina similar capacity

(d) Evidence of significant contributions in Executive/Non-executive Leadership positions held in Professional and Statutory Bodies, Public or

- Private Sector Organizations
{e) Evidence provided on the recognition by the public at large

Criteria 3:

(a) Evidence of working with both public and private sectors on advisory capacity on sectoral/national development

(b) Evidence of understanding complex challenges faced by the Institutions and demonstrating a holistic approach

(c) Evidence for developing viable solution for institutional/academic/professional/issues with the engagement of all key stakeholders

(d) Evidence for broader understanding of socio-economic and religious-cultural forces and their possible current and future impact on the
institutions

Criteria 4:

(a) Career progression as an academic and the level of involvement in improving relevance and quality of study programmes
(b) Evidence for proven track record of research performance and research promotions

(c) Evidence of academic expertise in his/her discipline and other broad areas

(a) Evidence for outstanding academic and research recognition at institutional/national /international levels


----- circular1.pdf: Page 9 -----
(ii)

(iii)

Annex |

Criteria 5:

(a) Evidence for unbiemished tract record

(b) Evidence for appreciations integrity

{c) Evidence for guiding others ethically

{d) Evidence for being a role model for the students and faculty ;

Criteria 6:

(a) Evidence for persuasive speaking in public front

(b) Evidence for leading successful! discussion/deliberations

(c) Evidence for publishing articles for general public

{d) Evidence for communicating effectively within academic/scientific/public/media forums

Criteria 7:

(a) Evidence for sound financial administration

(b) Evidence for quality academic administration

(c) Evidence for effectively managing human resources

(d) Evidence for having sound understanding on statues, establishments- and financial management procedures pertaining to university
administration

 

Each Member of the Board of Management shall perform a Desk Evaluation of respective candidates by examining the evidences/information
provided by the candidates as per the Paragraph (v) &/or (vi) of the Commission Circular No. 01/2024 of 01.01.2024 and arrive atla tentative
judgement on the extent of fulfillment of the criteria-specific elements/attributes of each criterion and assign a tentative mark in 9 to 10 scale
for the respective criteria. Desk evaluation shall be completed before the scheduled Specia! Board of Management meeting.

|
|
The final marks for each criterion and the candidate's total score shall be arrived only after the presentation and interviewing the individual
candidate. :

XXXXXXXX



--- END DOCUMENT: circular1.pdf ---



--- BEGIN DOCUMENT: circular2.pdf ---

--- Document Metadata: circular2.pdf ---
title: 
author: 
subject: 
creator: 
producer: 
creation_date: 
modification_date: 
pages: 1
filename: circular2.pdf
file_size_kb: 300.38

----- circular2.pdf: Page 1 -----
 

UNIVERSITY GRANTS COMMISSION

COMMISSION CIRCULAR NO. O6 /2024 No. 20, Ward Place,
Colombo 07.

February 27, 2024

Vice-Chancellors of Universities
Rectors of Campuses
Directors of Institutes

EXTENSION THE PERIOD OF COURSE OF STUDY MENTIONED IN BONDS AN
AGREEMENTS DUE TO THE DELAYS OCCURRED WITH THE COVID-19 PANDEMIC

 

University Grants Commission has been reported that the completion of the
postgraduate qualifications by the staff members, who have already signed Bonds and
Agreements, has been delayed due to the difficulties encountered with COVID-19
pandemic.

Bi Having considered the above, the University Grants Commission at its 1119%
meeting held on 22.02.2024 decided that the Council of the respective University/Higher
Educational Institute may consider to extend the period of course of study mentioned in
Bonds and Agreements of academic staff members up to a maximum of 2 years based on
the submission of appropriate documents and justifications to prove the delay of
completing of postgraduate qualifications occurred due to COVID-19 pandemic situation.

03. However, in case of Lecturer (Probationary) post holders such extension of the
period of course of study mentioned in the Bonds and Agreements shall not exceed the

maximum 08 years of probationary period.

Please take action accordingly, and bring this to the notice of the relevant parties
aes

—Senior Prof. Sampath Amaratunge

Chairman

Copies: Secretary/Ministry of Education
Vice-Chairman/UGC
Members of the UGC
Secretary/UGC

Registrars of Universities
Deans of Faculties
Accountant/UGC
Bursars of Universities
Librarians/SAL/AL of the Higher Educational Institutions /Institutes
10. Deputy Registrars/ Snr. Asst. Registrars/Asst. Registrars of Campuses/Institutes
11. Deputy Bursars/Snr. Asst. Bursars/ Asst. Bursars of Campuses/Institutes
12. Internal Auditor/UGC
13. Chairman’s Office/UGC
14. Govt. Audit Superintendents of Universities
15. Snr. Asst. Int. Auditors of HEIs
16. Secretaries of Trade Unions
17. Auditor-General
File No. UGC/HR/2/3/106/Lec.
UGC/HR/4/8/33

$9 OO) MEOW ah GO ROLES



--- END DOCUMENT: circular2.pdf ---



--- BEGIN DOCUMENT: circular3.pdf ---

--- Document Metadata: circular3.pdf ---
title: 
author: 
subject: 
creator: 
producer: 
creation_date: 
modification_date: 
pages: 2
filename: circular3.pdf
file_size_kb: 434.22

----- circular3.pdf: Page 1 -----
 

UNIVERSITY GRANTS COMMISSION

COMMISSION CIRCULAR NO: ©7 /2024 No. 20, Ward Place
Colombo 07

01° March, 2024
Vice-Chancellors of Universities
Rectors of Campuses
Directors of Institutes

MATERNITY LEAVE AND NURSING INTERVALS FOR FEMALE EMPLOYEES
OF THE UNIVERSITY SYSTEM

 

Your attention is drawn to the Paragraph No. | (b) of Commission Circular No. 10/2013
dated 02.09.2013 issued on the above caption, as incorporated into Chapter X of the
Establishments Code of the University Grants Commission and the Higher Educational
Institutions / Institutes — 2023.

2. Having considered the relevant amendment of the Shop and Office Employees
(Regulation of Employment and Remuneration) (Amendment) Act, No. 14 of 2018, the
Commission at it’s 1115" and 1118" meetings held on 14.12.2023 and 08.02.2024 respectively
decided to amend sub-paragraph 5.4 of Chapter X of the E-Code as follows;

Nursing Intervals

5.4 Female employees of the university system are entitled to two nursing intervals
each one of one hour’s duration for breast feeding in the morning and in the
afternoon or other arrangement in agreement with the management from the date
of resumption of duties after maternity leave until the child is one year old”

3. The other provisions of the Commission Circular No. 10/2013 as incorporated into the
Establishments Code of the University Grants Commission and the Higher Educational
Institutions / Institutes — 2023 shall remain unchanged.

Please take action accordingly.

= Mes Prof. Sampath , Amaratunge

Chairman

Copies: 1. Secretary/ Ministry of Education
2. Vice-Chairman/UGC

3. Members of the UGC

4. Secretary/UGC

5. Registrars of Universities

6. Deans of Faculties

7. Accountant/UGC

8

. Bursars of Universities


----- circular3.pdf: Page 2 -----
-09. Librarians/SAL/AL of the Higher Educational Institutions /Institutes
10. Deputy Registrars/ Snr. Asst. Registrars/Asst. Registrars of Campuses/Institutes
11. Deputy Bursars/Snr. Asst. Bursars/ Asst. Bursars of Campuses/Institutes
12. Internal Auditor/UGC
13. Chairman’s Office/UGC
14. Govt. Audit Superintendents of Universities
15. Snr. Asst. Int. Auditors of HEIs
16. Secretaries of Trade Unions
17. Auditor —General

File No: UGC/HR/6/4/12



--- END DOCUMENT: circular3.pdf ---



--- BEGIN DOCUMENT: test1.pdf ---

--- Document Metadata: test1.pdf ---
title: 
author: Pasindu Kandanage
subject: 
creator: Microsoft® Word for Microsoft 365
producer: Microsoft® Word for Microsoft 365
creation_date: 2025-03-25 22:45
modification_date: 2025-03-25 22:45
pages: 3
filename: test1.pdf
file_size_kb: 222.61

----- test1.pdf: Page 1 -----
Engineering Faculty Students’ Union

Faculty of Engineering,
University of Ruhuna,
Hapugala,

Galle.

 

From : The President, Engineering Faculty Students’ Union, Galle.

To : All societies and club representatives
Subject —: Invitation to Collaborate in REXTRO - 2025 — Silver Jubilee Exhibition

Date : 25/03/2025

Dear President/Society Representative,

The Faculty of Engineering, University of Ruhuna, is proud to celebrate its Silver Jubilee, marking 25
years of excellence in engineering education, research, and innovation. As part of this milestone, the
Students’ Union is organizing REXTRO '25, a grand exhibition scheduled for December 2025 at our
faculty premises in Hapugala, Galle. We warmly invite your society/club to collaborate with us in this
historic event by contributing to the exhibition, events, or competitions.

On behalf of the Student Union, I am pleased to introduce Kavishka Kalhara as the Chairman of the
REXTRO Exhibition Organizing Committee. This exhibition is being organized by the Student Union
under his leadership, ensuring a well-coordinated and impactful event.

This is an exceptional opportunity to showcase your projects, engage with industry professionals, alumni,
and the public, and foster collaboration within the engineering community. Below is the procedure for
your participation:

Participation Procedure

Overview of Opportunities

You may contribute to REXTRO - 2025 in the following ways:
e Exhibition Stalls or Projects: Display innovative projects, prototypes or research.
e Collaborative Events: Host workshops, guest lectures or panel discussions.

e Competitions: Organize contests such as robotics challenges or hackathons.


----- test1.pdf: Page 2 -----
Submission Process

To participate, please send an Expression of Interest (EOI) or Proposal via email to the Organizing
Committee, at contact @rextro.info. Submissions must include the following details:

e For Exhibition Stalls/Projects:
o Subject: “EOI: Exhibition Stall/Project — [Society/Club Name]”
o Content:
« Society/club name and contact person.
« Project/stall type (e.g., prototype, research display).
« Space requirements (e.g., table size).
« Technical needs (e.g., power, internet).
* 100-150 word description of the project/stall.
e For Collaborative Events:
o Subject: “Proposal: Event Collaboration — [Society/Club Name]”
o Content:
« Event type/title (e.g., workshop, guest lecture).
« Target audience (e.g., undergraduates, school students).
« Proposed speakers/facilitators.
« Duration and preferred timing.
« Resource needs.
e For Competitions:
o Subject: “Proposal: Competition — [Society/Club Name]”
o Content:
«= Competition name and objective.
= Rules and judging criteria.
« Target participants.
« Prize details (if any).
« Space/technical requirements.
Review and Approval

e All submissions will be reviewed by the relevant REXTRO - 2025 organizing committee for
relevance, feasibility, and alignment with the event’s objectives.

Key Deadlines

e April 30", 2025: Submit EOIs/proposals to contact @rextro.info .


----- test1.pdf: Page 3 -----
Benefits of Participation

Gain visibility among industry professionals, alumni, and the public.
Showcase your innovations and projects.
Network with peers and potential collaborators.

Receive recognition in the REXTRO - 2025 catalogue and certificates of participation.

Contact Information

For inquiries or clarifications, please contact:

Kavishka Kalhara

Chairman, Organizing Committee, REXTRO - 2025
Phone: 070 111 7791

Email: kalhara@rextro.info

Kasuni Hansana

Vice-chair, External Relations, REXTRO - 2025
Phone: 074 271 5929

Email: kasuni@rextro.info

How to Proceed

Please prepare your EOI or proposal as outlined above and email it to contact @rextro.info by April 30,
2025. We encourage early submissions to ensure ample planning time. Your participation will enrich
REXTRO — 2025 and contribute to the success of our Silver Jubilee celebration.

We look forward to collaborating with you in making this event a landmark achievement for the Faculty
of Engineering, University of Ruhuna.

Yours sincerely,

(Abesinghe B.M.L.P.)
President - EFSU



--- END DOCUMENT: test1.pdf ---



--- BEGIN DOCUMENT: test2.pdf ---

--- Document Metadata: test2.pdf ---
title: StudyMate User Guide Smart Study Timer Platform – Web & Mobile Prepared for: Mr. Charuka Moremada By: Team StudyMate
author: theekshana wanniarachchi
subject: 
creator: Canva
producer: Canva
creation_date: 2025-05-04 21:43
modification_date: 2025-05-04 21:42
pages: 16
filename: test2.pdf
file_size_kb: 4746.4

----- test2.pdf: Page 1 -----
     
      
   

StudyMate USER GUIDE

 

Smart Study Timer Platform — Web & Mobile

Tick Tock, Study
Rock

Welcome to StudyMate!

Take control of your study time with our innovative app. Join
us for a smarter, more engaging way to study and achieve
Talbert ome Orel

ee Get Started Free

i

 

Prepared for: Mr. Charuka Moremada By: Group 33
— | _

 


----- test2.pdf: Page 2 -----
1. Introduction

 
  
 

   

co

StudyMate is a productivity tool designed to help students manage their study time more
effectively using the Pomodoro technique. It breaks study sessions into focused intervals with
regular breaks, helping users maintain concentration and avoid burnout.

 

Welcome to the StudyMate User Guide.

In addition to helping students focus, StudyMate also allows parents to monitor their child's
study progress through a linked dashboard. Our app is available on both web and mobile
platforms, making it easy to use anytime, anywhere.

This guide will walk you through how to install, navigate, and use the main features of the app.
Whether you are a student aiming to improve your study habits or a parent wanting to support
your child's academic journey, this guide will help you get started.


----- test2.pdf: Page 3 -----
2. = System Requirements

To use StudyMate smoothly, please make sure your device meets the following requirements.
) For Web App
e Browser: Latest version of Google Chrome, Mozilla Firefox, Microsoft Edge, or Safari
e Operating System: Windows 10 or higher, macOS 10.12 or higher.
e Internet Connection: Stable internet connection is required for login, timer synchronization,
quiz access, and data saving
e Screen Resolution: Minimum 1024x768 recommended for best user experience

[] For Mobile App
e Storage Space: At least 100MB of free space
e RAM: Minimum 2GB RAM recommended for smooth performance
e Internet Access: Required for account login, timer synchronization, quiz access, and
progress tracking
! Note: The StudyMate mobile app is currently under development and will be released soon.


----- test2.pdf: Page 4 -----
3. L_) Glossary

Below are some common terms used throughout the StudyMate platform:
e Pomodoro — A focused study session, typically 25 minutes long, based on the Pomodoro Technique.
e Short Break — A 5-minute break taken after completing a Pomodoro session.
e Long Break — A longer rest period (usually 15-30 minutes) after completing four Pomodoro sessions.
e To-Do List — A feature that allows users to organize and manage tasks by date and category.
e Student ID — A unique code generated for each student that can be used by parents to monitor their

progress.

e Parent Dashboard — A section where parents can track their child's study activity, quiz results, and
progress.

e Evaluation Form — A short reflection form filled out after each Pomodoro session to encourage self-
assessment.

¢ Quiz Section — A feature where students can access subject-related quizzes (available to paid users).

e Achievements — Rewards or badges earned by students for consistent study habits or special
milestones.

e Distraction Alert — A notification or sound that triggers when the user switches tabs or gets distracted
during a session.


----- test2.pdf: Page 5 -----
4. ») User Access Information

©) Web Access
Visit: https://study-mate-amber.vercel.app
Or simply scan the QR code below to open the website on your device.

 

 

L) Mobile App
“2 The mobile version (Android & iOS) is currently under development and will be released soon.

/ Demo Account Credentials
You can use the following demo accounts to explore the system:

Roel’ «SSSS*S*«i sO
user12@gmail.com 123456

parent1 @gmail.com 123456
admin6@gmail.com 123456

 

Users can also create a new account by selecting Sign Up on the login page and choosing their role (Student or
Parent).


----- test2.pdf: Page 6 -----
4. & How to Use Specific Features

Il. Side Panel Navigation
The Side Panel helps users easily move between different parts of the StudyMate platform. It stays visible
on the side of the screen for quick access

 

Dashboard - View your study progress, achievements, and reports.
Home - Takes you to the welcome/home page.

Timer —- Opens the Smart Study Timer to start your sessions.

To-Do List - Add, edit, and manage your tasks and priorities.

Quiz — Access available quizzes (if paid).

|

© f \ © & o0oe

Notifications — View alerts and messages from the StudyMate team.
|

Logout Button - To safely exit your account

cD

|
? FAQ - Check frequently asked questions or report issues.

iS)


----- test2.pdf: Page 7 -----
lil. © Smart Timer
The Smart Timer is the core feature of StudyMate, designed to help users manage their study time
effectively using the Pomodoro technique. Here's how to use it:

Me study-mate-e2cie45j7-tharunethus-projects.vercel.app ,” a
Ce

If a user switches tabs during a study -ianenenenall Users can upload a music file
session, the app plays a sound alert and listen to it while studying.
reminding them to stay focused

 
  
 
 

   

     

Pomodoros

 

Users can customize sessions a the "Extend by 10 Minutes" button if you

 

need extra time.

Manage To-do List

c= 008
Z

>y-= Start, Pause, and Stop

 

 


----- test2.pdf: Page 8 -----
iii, -- Pomodoro Review Form
The Por lew Form is designed to help you assess your study sessions and earn points based on
your s

  
  

StudyMate

Q. Quick Self-Check: Review Your Pomodoro Session!

   
 
 

1. How focused were you during this session?

wo6Y6UMmlUlUUCUW

2. How productive was your study session?

wv o6WO6UCUMNlUlUCUO

3. How much did you understand from what you studied?

ww OUwWwlUMUlU

   
  
  

4. What did you do during this Pomodoro session?

Descnibe your study session...

5. How many Pomodoros did you use for this task?

ES


----- test2.pdf: Page 9 -----
iv. 2 To-Do List
The To-Do List feature helps users organize and manage their tasks effectively.

Manage Your To-Do List 3
Sorting Tasks.

Tasks All Tasks

@ All Tasks 6
Programming vwvv

      
   
   
     
  
    

         

 

> Upcoming 0

re List: Work

= (\ Today fh)

@ Due Date: 2025-03-05
= Calendar Priority Level: medium

©

ra Lists * A wW
@ Personal 2

[ua

BB Wor Java

      
   
   

2

 
  

cm CB Study 3 List: Study «_V
Due Date: 2025-03-06

¥ = Important Tasks Priority

© cone ss sewn Delete atask.
we @w

Clean the room
List: Personal
Due Date: 2025-02-21
Priority Level: high

Cub_tselbe Tahnla

  

+ Set Your Tasks

Description

+ Add a Description about the Task

 

Personal

POUPLALPL
Puy Per PF
FFF

  

Sub Tasks + Add a subtask

  

Prioritized Level Low v

Add Task


----- test2.pdf: Page 10 -----
V. «= Quizzes
The Quiz feature allows students to test their knowledge and track their learning progress.

StudyMate

Welcome to the Quiz Zone!

 
 

Unlock Premium Quiz
=%
Access bs designed to test your knowledge and help you track your progress. We're proud to collaborate with ClassMarker.com to deliver

Pay just $2.5 to access exclusive quizzes and track

your performance. ked to yours, they will also be able to view your quiz results through their dashboard.

Can't see the payment options? Please refresh the ddyMate

age.
peg me to begin.

  
  

core and correct answers after finishin
It URL to revisit anytime.

st here.

Lesson 2 Grade 6 Science Quiz - Lesson 1 studymate_trial_quiz
View Previous Quiz Results

[> Drs) iae ear sl eerie

Powered by PayPal

 

atti ees fsl0lc* Mal c*Fap at) [esse [On ra) PoC To!
G / s /

    


----- test2.pdf: Page 11 -----
vi. 1! Student Dashboard
The Student Dashboard is your personal space where you can view your progress, achievements, and
detailed study information.

[2 Export Data

Hello user12, Let's Check Out Your Progress!

ASAT NT MAE

You can export your full progress report as a PDF

 

Personal Details Task Progress Pomodoro Sessions

Name Email | G 2 /6 61 Oh otal
userl2 userl2@gmail.com A) Total mnodoro
Student ID Tasks Lao © Completed 14m rom ‘
uaen 0 e
5 pnt Earn this achievement based on the total

Early Bird: Earn this achievement if you study
between 4 AM to 8 AM for 5 days a week.

\

i :)

   

ScTa te iias

 

Night Owl Focus Pearl

points from your Pomodoro session
reviews. You must have more than 40
points across multiple session evaluations
to earn this badge.

Night Owl: Earn this achievement if you study between 10 PM to 3 AM for 5 days a week. -


----- test2.pdf: Page 12 -----
vii. ; = Parent Dashboard
The Parent Dashboard allows parents to monitor and track the progress of their child's study sessions.

Se Hello Parent1, view your student's progress here.

StudyMate

 
    
      

 
 

To add a student, simply enter the Student ID

View Your Student's Details \(enterstudentio_—) ar

ee ee ee ee ee ee ee eee | ee ee ee ee stu

     
     

New message from »® inbox x

parents can view information for each added | ay swiwe cements se

student. yy
___. _..dents

WL aaa al

Hello Student,
You got a new message from StudyMate:
We are excited to inform you that parent Parent! from our community has added you as their student to monitor and support your study analytics through our platform

If you are aware of this addition, no further action is required on your part. However, if you do not recognize this activity or have any concerns, please contact us immediately
at http:/Mocalhost:5173/faq

 

Thank you for being a valued part of our learning community!

Best wishes,
StudyMate team

Email sent via EmailS com

Once a student is added, the student will receive an email notifying them
that they’ve been successfully linked to the parent account. The email will
include the parent's name so the student knows who has linked them.

 


----- test2.pdf: Page 13 -----
viii. ? Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ)
The FAQ section helps users find quick answers to common questions about using StudyMate.

StudyMate

  
 

Frequently Asked Questio

Facing any issues? Report it!

 

1. What Is this app, and how can it help me?

This app helps you manage your study sessions efficiently using features like Pomodoro timers, task management, progress tracking, and motivational quotes. It keeps you focus

  

and organized throughout your study routine.

2. How do | set a study timer?
Simply select the desired study session fram the timer options, or customize your own timer settings, and click “Start” to begin. You can pause and reset the timer whenever neec

 

3. Can | track my study progress?

Yes, the app offers visual progress tracking, showing your study hours, tasks completed, and overall progress.

4. Can | set reminders for my study tasks?

Yes, you can set reminders for each task to ensure you stay on track with your study goals.


----- test2.pdf: Page 14 -----
 
 
 
 

ard

Admin Dashboard

User Growth Trends

12

5185 /) Ma

Total Users

Jan 5 Jan7 Mar 13 Mar 18 Mar 21 Mar 22
Date

- Total Users mi New Users

7

  
 
 
  

Reported Issues

User ID Category Details
5xXbVUfHYSgmH9AIKWmDpNR828V2 Other Issues otherlssue: Alerts are not working properly
3jLRGHVbVoNKpAhDa7hxPtjm8hd2 Request Quiz aah

grade: Grade 10-11
3jLRGHVbVoNKpAhDa7hxPtjm8hd2 App Issues applssue: Timer not working
5xXbVUfHYSgmH9AIKWmDpNR828V2 App Issues applssue: To-Do List issue

emailTime: 3.20 pm
3jLRGHVbVoNKpAhDa7hxPtjm8hd2 Parent/Account Issues emailDate: 22/3/2025
parentName: parent!

Send Notification

Message
A
Recipient Type
All Users v
Importance
Normal v

Send Notification

 

Timestamp

3/22/2025, 9:42:58 AM

4/17/2025, 5:09:10 PM

3/22/2025, 8:54:07 AM

3/22/2025, 9:46:27 AM

3/22/2025, 8:55:15 AM

rovides administrators with full control over platform analytics, user communication,

Add remarks

Add remarks

Add remarks

Add remarks

Parent did not answer

 


----- test2.pdf: Page 15 -----
5. & Troubleshooting

lf you experience issues while using StudyMate, try the following solutions:

ef Solution
App not loading Check your internet connection and try again.
Can't log in Make sure your email and password are entered correctly.

Ensure you have completed the $2.50 lifetime quiz payment.

Payment options not showing. Try reloading the page until the payment interface appears.
Try refreshing the page or restarting the app.

 


----- test2.pdf: Page 16 -----
6. <. Support Contact Details

lf youre unable to resolve your issue using the troubleshooting guide, feel free to reach out for help:
e <Email: studymateapp3@gmail.com
e & Phone: +94 71 057 1733
e Website: https://study-mate-amber.vercel.app

Were here to help you get the most out of your StudyMate experience!

 



--- END DOCUMENT: test2.pdf ---

